[JAX FE][DOCS] Document Support of JAX/Flax models by OpenVINO (#26513)
openvinotoolkit/openvino: docs/articles_en/openvino-workflow/model-preparation/convert-model-jax.rst

   jaxpr = jax.make_jaxpr(jax_func)(x, y)
   # 2. Convert to OpenVINO
   ov_model = ov.convert_model(jaxpr)

Here is an example of the simplest ``flax.linen.Module`` model conversion:

.. code-block:: py
   :force:

   import flax.linen as nn
   import jax
   import jax.numpy as jnp
   import openvino as ov

   # let user have some Flax module
   class SimpleModule(nn.Module):
       features: int

       @nn.compact
       def __call__(self, x):
           return nn.Dense(features=self.features)(x)

   module = SimpleModule(features=4)

   # create example_input used for training
   example_input = jnp.ones((2, 3))

   # prepare parameters to initialize the module
   # they can be also loaded using pickle, flax.serialization
   key = jax.random.PRNGKey(0)
   params = module.init(key, example_input)
   module = module.bind(params)

   ov_model = ov.convert_model(module, example_input=example_input)

When using ``flax.linen.Module`` as an input model, ``openvino.convert_model`` requires the
``example_input`` parameter to be specified. Internally, it triggers the model tracing during
the model conversion process, using the capabilities  of the ``jax.make_jaxpr`` function.

> The ``__call__`` method of ``flax.linen.Module`` object can also have extra custom flags

Author: not needed. the meaning is changed.

(like ``training``) in the input signature. In this case, it is required to create a helper function

> which has an input signature without any extra custom flags and parameters not related to input data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that has an input signature without any extra custom flags or parameters, not related to input data.
```

Here is an example of handling such case below:

.. code-block:: py
   :force:

   import jax
   import jax.numpy as jnp
   import openvino as ov
   from flax import linen as nn
   from flax.core import freeze, unfreeze

   class SimpleModuleWithExtraFlag(nn.Module):
       features: int

       @nn.compact
       def __call__(self, x, training):
           x = nn.Dense(self.features)(x)
           x = nn.BatchNorm(use_running_average=not training)(x)
           return x

   # 1. Initialize the model
   module = SimpleModuleWithExtraFlag(features=10)
   key = jax.random.PRNGKey(0)
   input_data = jnp.ones((4, 5))  # Batch of 4 samples, each with 5 features
   params = module.init(key, input_data, training=False)

   # 2. Create helper function with only input data parameter
   def helper_function(x):
       return module.apply(params, x, training=False)

   # 3. Trace the helper function
   jaxpr = jax.make_jaxpr(helper_function)(input_data)

   # 4. Convert to OpenVINO
   ov_model = ov.convert_model(jaxpr)

.. note::

>    In the examples above the ``openvino.save_model`` function is not used because there are no
>    JAX-specific details regarding the usage of this function. In all examples, the converted
>    OpenVINO model can be saved to IR by calling ``ov.save_model(ov_model, 'model.xml')`` as usual.

Reviewer: I think we can shorten it without any loss to the message

```suggestion
   The resulting OpenVINO IR model can be saved to drive with no additional, JAX-specific steps. 
   Use the standard ``ov.save_model(ov_model,'model.xml')`` command. 
```

Exporting a JAX/Flax Model to TensorFlow SavedModel Format
##########################################################

> An alternative method of converting JAX/Flax models is exporting a JAX/Flax model to TensorFlow SavedModel format

Author: Just google: "Although both can refer to a different or backup option, typically alternate refers to an action of rotating or taking turns while alternative usually refers to another option or choice"
So "alternative" better suits.

> An alternative method of converting JAX/Flax models is exporting a JAX/Flax model to TensorFlow SavedModel format

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An alternative method of converting JAX/Flax models is exporting them to the TensorFlow SavedModel format
```

> with ``jax.experimental.jax2tf.convert`` first and then converting the resulting SavedModel directory to OpenVINO Model

Reviewer: ```suggestion
first, with ``jax.experimental.jax2tf.convert``,  and then converting the resulting SavedModel directory to OpenVINO IR,
```

with ``openvino.convert_model``. It can be considered as a backup solution if a model cannot be

> converted directly from JAX/Flax to OpenVINO as described in the above chapters.

Author: ```suggestion
converted directly from JAX/Flax to OpenVINO as described in the chapters above.
```

> with ``openvino.convert_model``. It can be considered as a backup solution if a model cannot be
> converted directly from JAX/Flax to OpenVINO as described in the chapters above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with ``openvino.convert_model``. It can be considered a backup solution, if a model cannot be
converted directly, as described previously.
```

> 1. Refer to the `JAX and TensorFlow interoperation https://github.com/google/jax/blob/main/jax/experimental/jax2tf/README.md>`__

Author: ```suggestion
1. Refer to the `JAX and TensorFlow interoperation <https://github.com/google/jax/blob/main/jax/experimental/jax2tf/README.md>`__
```

>    guide to learn how to export models from JAX to SavedModel format.

Reviewer 2: You use "Tensorflow SavedModel" and "SavedModel" above, better to use same notation everywhere. Same thing about "JAX" and "JAX/Flax".

Author: Fixed

>    guide to learn how to export models from JAX to SavedModel format.

Author: ```suggestion
   guide to learn how to export models from JAX/Flax to TensorFlow SavedModel format.
```

> 2. Follow :doc:`Convert a TensorFlow model <convert-model-tensorflow>` chapter to produce OpenVINO model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Follow :doc:`Convert a TensorFlow model <convert-model-tensorflow>` chapter to produce an OpenVINO IR model.
```

> Here is an illustration of using these two steps together:

Reviewer 2: I think "example" is better than "illustration"

Author: illustration also sounds not bad. Let us avoid repeating `example` word.

Reviewer: We can also go for:
"Here is how you can use these two steps together:"

Just throwing another option in ;)

.. code-block:: py
   :force:

   import flax.linen as nn
   import jax
   import jax.experimental.jax2tf as jax2tf
   import jax.numpy as jnp
   import openvino as ov
   import openvino as ov
   import tensorflow as tf

   # let user have some Flax module
   class SimpleModule(nn.Module):
       features: int

       @nn.compact
       def __call__(self, x):
           return nn.Dense(features=self.features)(x)

   flax_module = SimpleModule(features=4)

   # prepare parameters to initialize the module
   # they can be also loaded using pickle, flax.serialization
   example_input = jnp.ones((2, 3))
   key = jax.random.PRNGKey(0)
   params = flax_module.init(key, example_input)
   module = flax_module.bind(params)

   # 1. Export to SavedModel
   # create TF function and wrap it into TF Module
   tf_function = tf.function(jax2tf.convert(flax_module, native_serialization=False), autograph=False,
                             input_signature=[tf.TensorSpec(shape=[2, 3], dtype=tf.float32)])
   tf_module = tf.Module()
   tf_module.f = tf_function

>    tf.saved_model.save(tf_module, 'saved_model')

Reviewer 2: I suggest to use full-path or "./saved_model", otherwise it could be saved in an unexpected place (some "current dir"). Also, I don't recommend to use "saved_model" if it is possible, because it could be understood wrong. Otherwise - add a comment "do not change saved_model because it is required for correct work"

Author: Fixed.

>    tf.saved_model.save(tf_module, 'saved_model')

Author: ```suggestion
   tf.saved_model.save(tf_module, './saved_model')
```

   # 2. Convert to OpenVINO

>    ov_model = ov.convert_model('saved_model')

Author: ```suggestion
   ov_model = ov.convert_model('./saved_model')
```

.. note::

>    As of version 0.4.15, it is requred to pass ``native_serialization=False`` parameter
>    into ``jax2tf.convert`` for graph serialization mode. Without this option, the created TensorFlow
>    function will contain the embedded StableHLO modules that are not handled by OpenVINO TensorFlow Frontend.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   As of version 0.4.15, it is requred to pass the ``native_serialization=False`` parameter
   into ``jax2tf.convert`` for the graph serialization mode. Without it, the created TensorFlow
   function will contain embedded StableHLO modules that are not handled by the OpenVINO
   TensorFlow Frontend.
```

Reviewer 3: > 

```suggestion
   As of version 0.4.15, it is required to pass ``native_serialization=False`` parameter
   into ``jax2tf.convert`` for graph serialization mode. Without this option, the created TensorFlow
   function will contain the embedded StableHLO modules that are not handled by OpenVINO TensorFlow Frontend.
```
